Case Study #2

Our IT company embarked on an ambitious project in January 2024 aimed at delivering a cutting-edge software solution to our users and clients. 
The project was meticulously planned with a target launch date of June 1. However, as the deadline approaches, it becomes apparent 
that several tasks are still in progress, and there are unresolved bugs that need attention. The testing process, crucial for ensuring product quality,
has not yet begun. As a software engineer involved in the project, what aspects could have been handled better to prevent the delays and issues experienced, 
such as incomplete tasks, unresolved bugs, and a delayed testing process?

For this activity, evaluate the situation and offer your suggestions on areas where improvements could have been made.


Answer:

As a software engineer, the first thing that comes to mind that should handled better are:

1. Do the project have enough manpower to finish on the designated timeline? Enough manpower is a crucial part to a project, even if you have 
   an employee that can handle various tasks of many people, there is still a difference between two or more people working on these tasks compared
   to a one person working all these tasks.
2. Is the time enough for this project? Enough time is also a crucial part to a project. To my experience having enough time gives a project more
   life compared to very little time that results to cramming.
3. Are requirements reasonable? Understanfing the requirements for the project such as what are the deliverables can make a difference. You can assign
   the right person to the right tasks and alot a reasonable time to a certain tasks.
4. Do I have the right management to manage the project? Sometimes mis-management is also a reason to a project failure, even if you have the 
   right people, a reasonable time and excellent understanding to the requirements but management is not good enough surely the project will fail.

Lastly, being ambitious is a good thing, just like in chess great players that are on the top are the players who always takes risks its either 
a win or loss, but players who always play safe always a draw, are not at the top. The point is be ambitious but make sure you a plan B or C even if you fail 
you can still have backup plan.